codeforces 161D sol (#2457)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/cf-161D.mdx

---
id: cf-161D
source: CF Distance in Tree
title: Distance in Tree
author: Sofia Yang
---

[Official Editorial](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/4097)

We want to find the total number of length $K$ paths in the tree.

For each node $a$, there are 2 cases.

> 1. There are length $K$ paths from $a$ to node $b$, in the subtree of $a$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. There is a path of length $K$ from $a$ to node $b$, in the subtree of $a$.
```

> 2. Otherwise, there are paths from node $b$ and node $c$ (both in the subtree of $a$), that pass through $a$.
> For case 2, the added length of the paths from $b$ to $a$, and the path from $c$ to $a$, should be $K$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. There is a path from node $b$ to node $c$ (both in the subtree of $a$) that passes through node $a$.
The sum of the lengths of the paths from $b$ to $a$, and from $c$ to $a$, should be $K$.
```
You should clarify what node $b$ and $c$ are...

> If $N$ is the number of nodes, $K$ is the desired distance, we can define a DP matrix $\texttt{DP[N][K]}$ where $\texttt{DP[i][j]}$ is the number of nodes that has distance $j$ downwards from node $i$ in the tree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If $N$ is the number of nodes and $K$ is the desired distance, we can define a DP array where $\texttt{DP[i][j]}$ is the number of nodes that has distance $j$ downwards from node $i$ in the tree. The answer is $\texttt{DP[N][M]}$.
```
Could you clarify what "downwards" means?

> So we want to DFS through the tree, and for each node, calculate the answer for case 1 and case 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So we want to run DFS on the tree, and for each node, calculate the answer for case 1 and case 2.
```

> Then we want to update the DP values by adding in the distances from the children.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then we want to update the DP values by adding in the distances from the children.
```
Maybe combine this sentence with that previous???

<LanguageSection>

<JavaSection>

```java
import java.io.*;
import java.util.*;

> public class Main {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
public class DistanceInTree {
```

	static int N, K;
	static ArrayList<Integer> adj[];

> 	static int dp[][]; // DP[i][j] = number of nodes of distance j from node i.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	static int dp[][];  // DP[i][j] = number of nodes of distance j from node i.
```
also this is over 80 char

	static long ans = 0;

	public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
		Kattio io = new Kattio();
		N = io.nextInt();
		K = io.nextInt();
		dp = new int[N + 1][K + 1];
		adj = new ArrayList[N + 1];
		for (int i = 0; i <= N; i++) {
			adj[i] = new ArrayList<>();
		}
		for (int i = 0; i < N - 1; i++) {
			int a = io.nextInt();
			int b = io.nextInt();
			adj[a].add(b);
			adj[b].add(a);
		}

		dfs(1, 0);
		System.out.println(ans);

	}

	static void dfs(int cur, int par) {

> 		dp[cur][0] = 1; // The current node's distance from itself fis 0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		dp[cur][0] = 1;  // The current node's distance from itself is 0.
```

Style guide

		for (int next : adj[cur]) {
			if (next != par) {

> 				// Visit children.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
				// Visit child node.
```

				dfs(next, cur);
				// Case 1 answer.
				ans = dp[cur][K];

> 				/*
> 				 * Case 2 answer is the number of paths starting from subtree of cur
> 				 * and ending in subtree of the unprocessed child.
> 				 */

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
				
				// Case 2 answer is the number of paths starting from subtree of cur
				// and ending in subtree of the unprocessed child.
```

				for (int i = 0; i < K - 1; i++) {
					ans += dp[cur][i] * dp[next][K - 1 - i];
				}

				// Process child by appending the paths to the current node.
				for (int i = 1; i <= K; i++) {
					dp[cur][i] += dp[next][i - 1];
				}
			}
		}
	}

	// CodeSnip{Kattio}
}
```
</JavaSection>

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

const int MAXN = 50000;
const int MAXK = 500;
vector<int> adj[MAXN];
long long dp[MAXN][MAXK];
int N; int K;
long long ans;

int dfs(int cur, int par) {
	// Distance of the node from itself is 0.
	dp[cur][0] = 1;
	for (int next: adj[cur]) {
		if (next != par) {
			// Visit children.
			dfs(next, cur);
			// Case 1 answer.
			ans = dp[cur][K];

> 			/*
> 			 * Case 2 answer is the number of paths starting from subtree of cur
> 			 * and ending in subtree of the unprocessed child.
> 			 */

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			// Case 2 answer is the number of paths starting from subtree of cur
			// and ending in subtree of the unprocessed child.
```

			for (int i = 0; i < K - 1; i++) {
				ans += dp[cur][i] * dp[next][K - 1 - i];
			}
			// Process child by appending the paths to the current node.
			for (int i = 1; i <= K; i++) {
				dp[cur][i] += dp[next][i - 1];
			}
		}
	}
}

int main() {
	cin >> N >> K;

> 	// Edges

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 	for (int i = 0; i < N - 1; i++) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	for (int i = 1; i < N; i++) {
```
I mean this isn't really necessary but shorter code.

		int a, b;
		cin >> a >> b;
		a--; b--;
		adj[a].push_back(b);
		adj[b].push_back(a);
	}
	dfs(0, -1);

> 	cout << ans;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	cout << ans << "\n";
```
